hi all welcome back in this video I am going
to create a to-do application using angular
and prime NG components so this is our to-do
application which has a list add then update
and delete as well so here is the input box if
I am adding some dummy text and click on this
button it will get added at the End by clicking
the check box as completed it will update at
this particular record so even after refresh it
will be the same and you can delete the record
then it will be removed from the list this is
what I am going to do on the coming section
so let's get started so I already installed an
angular application using the command ng new right
once this angular project has been installed
you can run the application using the command
ng server you just give ng serve then it will
already open our application in 4200 you can go
to the browser and you can enter 4000 localhost
4200 then it will show an application like this
then you can go to the SRC folder app and in the
app.component.html these are the content which is
showing in your browser so I'm just clearing
it and I am simply giving div hello world
you can see it is reflected so now
angular application has been the
angular project is installed next
up is you have to install Prime NG
and the supported Prime icons and the
prime Flex for the CSS classes Okay so
go to new terminal and you can give the command
npm install Prime Ng Prime icons then Prime Flex
so it's up to you if you are using different icons
or different CSS class you can install that one
now I am using all the primary related
stuff so primary Prime icons Prime flux
so this will take some time to install
once that has been installed you can go and
check in the package.json file these three
packages is installed okay so the next thing is
like in order to use the primary related stuff
you can go to angular.json file and in the style
section you have to add the theme which theme you
want and which prime NG um you know the prime NG
minified file and the primary flux CSS needs to
be added in the style sections if you have any
confusion you can go to the prime NG website
and in the installation gate they are
mentioning if you are installing the
prime NG you can add the CSS like this
and if you want more information about
the prime Flex installation you
can go and search for Prime Flex
so Prime Flex installation is also there in the
setup you are they are mentioning Prime flux
CSS needs to be imported so those three sections
are added in the Styles array then regarding the
prime icons in order to use the prime icons go to
this style.css file and you have to give at import
Prime icons CSS at import Prime icon then Prime
icon CSS files once these things has been done
your Prime NG setup is complete now we can check
the prime NG is working fine or not okay for that
what I am going to do is I am going to take the
primary component Prime and G card component okay
so I'm going to take the card
component of the Prime Ng
so this is a card component so first you have to
import the card module and go to your application
so I'm closing all other files going to the
application there will be a single module so
app dot module dot in your application you can
go to this file and add the card module and that
needs to be added in the Imports array so the
card module is imported again in order to use
the card you have to use the P card in the HTML so
you can copy this content from here and go to the
HTML file and override this hello world with the
p card with the title and some data so go to the
application so you can see this Prime NG
is not reflected the card is not looking
like this right so once you have do any
changes in your angular.json file you
have to restart okay so I I was
running the application now you
can exit the application and you can
run again using the NG serve command
okay now you can see the changes is reflecting
now and my card is also available so the prime NG
setup is also completed so our next step is like
we are going to build a to-do application first
there will be a list then an ad then edit delete
so first we will concentrate on creating a list
okay for creating before creating a list we can
make it as sender aligned so in order to use it
as a sender align there will be some Flex classes
so what you can do is if you want to go for the
tutorial of the Prime Flex you can go ahead
now what I am doing I am going to create a div
with these many classes so
there is a flex class Flex
column Alain item sender justify content Center
so once this has been done and you can
give a class of width 60 percentage
so it will take a it is like a call md6 okay so
call six it will take this much part and we are
added Flex Flex column all in item sender and
the Justified candle so now this looks okay
so I am changing the header to to
do the next thing is you have to
add a table so go to the prime and G and
you can search for the table component
so table component I will import that one in
the app dot module.ts file table component
that table module needs to be added in the
import section then you can see the P table
this code you can copy from here and paste
it in the HTML file so here I am removing
this one instead of this one I am giving like
this I'm not adding any table style so here the
products this products needs to be either come
from the API now before adding the APA related
stuff I will give this products a static value
so go to the Aptoide component.ts file and you
can give the products equal to an array of
I am giving ID as 1 and I am giving a task
as first to do then I am giving a flag called
completed as false so I have these three things
then come to the HTML part I only have a
three columns so the one is four the task
one is for the completed and one is for the
delete icon so I'm just starting the three
and one is for the task and
another one is for completed
and this one there is no heading so here instead
of the product I am telling like it is a to-do
so this is the variable it is referring so instead
of products we can change the variable to to those
and I am giving the same variable here
and I am telling each to do except to do
it will take the each object and the first First
Column will be to do dot task the second will be
to do dot it should be a checkbox but I will
change it later so to do dot completed then
there should be a delete icon so in order to use
a delete icon you have to use a button component
so before moving to the button component we have
to make sure the table is working fine or not so
let's go to the application you can see the task
completed and there is one column is there which
is empty so it is working fine the next is we
will go and add the delete so there should be a
button and there should be a checkbox so these are
the two things we have to do next so going to the
check box component first so the basic checkbox
you have to import the checkbox module so you
can go to the module section import the check
box and the checkbox module is a form element so
you have to either use a NG model or a reactive
form so since I am using NG model I am going
to import forms module from the angular forms
so whenever you are using any form components you
have to use a form module or the reactive form
so this should be imported from the angular
forms then the same thing needs to be added
in the import section then go to the HTML you
have to copy this one so P checkbooks NG model
so you can go to here and instead of
the to-do completed you can give the
speechbox and instead of this checked
one you can give to do Dot completed
and if you don't need you want to use this
input ID so I'm just using only these two things
so let's see whether it is working or not
so the checkbox came now the next thing we
have to add a button with the delete icon
right so you have to search for the button
then you have to import the button
module so copy that one and import here
then add the button module after add the
button module you can check there will
be icon available the similar way you can
copy the button from here and you can add
it instead of icon you can add here here
instead of p i check you can add PA trash
and the button is in a blue color now
you have to make it as a red color so
you have to give a class called P button Danger
so you got the task you got the check box and
also you got a drop down so in order to make
the width properly what I am going to do is
I am giving here width sorry width equal to
60 percentage and for this last delete button I
am giving the width equal to 5 percentage so it
will looks more good see now we can check whether
by default if it is completed will it checked or
not so go to the TS file where the tools has
been returned and you just try to make it as
a false and check whether it is working fine
or not okay so if I am repeating this chord
with the ID to second to do and I'm making it
as a false you can see it is reflecting properly
yeah next step is once we click on this checkbox
we have to update this particular record so we
will make sure on change we are getting the
proper data so for that go to the HTML part
and wherever you have written the check box you
can call on change event so on change event we
will call a function update to do and you will
get an event and also we will pass the studio
okay and we will create this function and will
make sure whether all the data we are receiving
it or not here so in the app dot component you can
create the same function and we are receiving this
one event now I am putting it as an unknown we
don't know the type then the next thing is to do
so the to-do type I have to Define it here so in
order to Define an interface you have to go to the
terminal and you can create an
interface file so either you can
go and create an interface file from here
or using the angular CLA you can use a
command NG G4 generate I4 interface
and you can tell the name the to do
so the 22.ts file is generated here and Export
interface to do so in that you can mention my
interface is looks like ID is the optional so it
will be the number and there is a task which is a
string and there is completed which is a Boolean
so you got the to-do so you can tell my to do
interfaces like this and also if you press the
Ctrl Dot you will you will see the Auto Import
option so add import from to do so that is also
added then you can check consult or log of e is
the event to do is the data receiving from that
checkbox so inspect element in the console section
I am clearing this one and if I checked
you can see the checked equal to false
and also I am getting the current row to
do data so if I click on the second I am
getting check this true and the clicked
data okay so I am getting the full data
so that is working fine so we will make it you
know we will call the API on the next step now
we will go ahead with this one the similar way
what you have to do is like while clicking on
the delete icon also you have to call a function
so you can do on click since it is a button you
can give own click and also you can write
a function delete to do and you can pass
event then also you can pass the product ID
you don't need the product full data because
updating you need but for the delete you only
need the product ID so I am passing product ID
so I am going to create the same function here so
delete to do and event you can give any or unknown
if you are not aware then I am giving the ID as
the to do ID this is the interface it will be the
same okay so here I am giving console.log of e
and also ID save and here you can see sorry this
is not the product this is the to do so to dot ID
so if you go to the application inspect element
on the console click on the delete you will get
the ID as2 and also you will get the event so
ID and event okay so that part is completed so
the next thing is you have to create an ad to
do right now the edit is done with the dummy data
the listing is done the delete is also done with
the dummy data so you have to create a new to
do so for that you have to create an input box
you you should have an input box so in order to
give the input box you have to go to the antler
component and search for the input so input text
component you will copy you can copy from here
and add it in the app dot module.js file then
input text module is added since it already added
the forms module I don't have to add it again so
input text module is a form element which should
have a forms module so that is already included
then go to the HTML part so above the table we
will do creating an input okay so what I will
do is in the card section I will create a Dev
and I am giving a class this is margin two and
also I am giving a class called Flex then I will
separate it with the two so one div is there in
which we have a input box and also I am going to
add a new button so new button it's a check button
so I'm just removing these stuffs for now so I'm
adding a button and also I'm going to add an input
text okay so the input text you can go to this
input text module and you can copy the same from
here so input text then P input text you have to
give the NG model so what I am going to give an NG
model is the task so here you have to declare that
variable task so I'm just removing the title from
here and the task is equal to empty for now so
you can see the error band next you can give the
placeholder and I am telling its Ender new to do
let's see how our application looks now so you
can see to do and also you can see a button right
the next thing is like without entering the
data the button should not be enabled right
now I can type anything and if I want you know I
can type the space and you can press the button
so what you have to do is you have to disable the
button if there is no data so in order to do that
what you can do hash I'm just giving a name called
to do task and I am giving equal to Ng model and
I'm telling this field is required and there is a
button here and this button will get disabled if
to do task is invalid so sometimes it will be
undefined so I am giving to exclamation here
so let's see whether it is working or not
so by default it is disabled and if you
type something it is getting enabled and if you
remove something it will throw some error and
again the button will get disabled so the
input box is also ready the next is when
you click on this button you have to add the
to-do which we have done for the update and
delete the same thing we have to done for add
as well so here you can go ahead with the own
clip and add to do I don't have to pass any
parameters because or those data will be new
so I'm just taking this one and you will have
the task from here so add to do just adding and
console.log I am saying added you know that's
it if you want you can see the task which we are
using in NG model variable that will be available
here also so I'm adding a task this dot task
now we have partially done our to-do
application with the mock data which
we have written inside the TS file next
we are moving to use a Json server which
will help to create a rest API which is a
fake rest API with the data we are giving
for that you have to install the Json server using
this command globally and after that you can go to
the db.json you can go to the project and create
any file name now I have created db.json file
they copied the same data of the to-do's and
pasted it here okay so to do is the key here
the next step is you can go in the terminal and
type Json server the path of the Json file you
have created and in the watch then our to-do list
will be available in this particular URL if you
go here you can see if you type the to-do's
it will available all the data which we have
written in the db.json will be available in this
URL that's it simple next we have to access this
data and you have to use in the list right for
that you have to create the service file now we
don't have any service for file for connecting to
the backend for that in order to create a service
file using the CLA angular CLA you can use NG
generate service then the service file name
it will create surveys file inside the app folder
go to the service file connect to the backend you
have to use the HTTP client module so go to the
app dot module.pts file and import HTTP client
same thing needs to be added in the import section
go to the service file again and
you have to add HTTP client there
then you have to use the
Constructor with the HTTP client
HTTP client now our base URL is localhost
3000 so I am adding the base URL also
now we have to write four functions
one for get to-do list another for
add to do then update to do and the delete to do
so the first function we are going to write is get
to do list and it will return this dot HTTP dot
then get and I am going to write the base URL
so dollar this dot base URL then slash to DOS
in order to make sure our to-do is returning
then let's talk to do which we have written
already in the interface so to do and this
is the structure you can make sure this is
the data it is returning from the API which we
have written before right so save so you will
get the get to do list the similar way I am going
to write for add to do delete to do update to do
so add to do there will be some newly added data
coming as a post data and we will pass to the URL
so this is a post request and we are passing the
second parameter as a post data while updating
instead of post it will be patch and the base URL
there will be an ID so which ID we are updating
and we are updated data also we are passing
here for the delay to do instead of patch it
will be delete and we can mention which ID which
record IDs we are deleting and you can pass that
ID that's it so we completed the service file
creation then based on each action you can call
this function in the TS file and you can utilize
that now we don't need the static data now you can
remove this to those and I am declaring this is a
to-do array and initially it will be empty on load
we can update this particular value so for that
you have to Implement a hook which is owned in it
so that on the NG on it you can
call a function this dot get list
so this get list what we this get list will do we
will call the service file function get to-do list
for that you have to inject the app service in the
app load component for injecting I am using the
Constructor and I am giving a variable private app
service and I am importing that app service file
and in the get list by default onload it is
calling the get list function which you have
to call appservice Dot which function we have to
do is get to-do list then you have to subscribe
that function and it will return a response
then this Dot to Do's so whatever the to-do's
we have are it will be initially empty then you
have to assign whatever the response coming you
have to assign with this one you can put the
call in places and you can mention it here
see so you will get the to rows from
the DB dot Json which we have mentioned
so the dp.json you can see here we will get those
data if you want to change the data to make sure
you can check I'm just adding this data so this
is getting updated and here also it is getting
updated now you can make sure all the data is
coming from the Json server not the static data we
have removed all the static data right the similar
way next thing else we have to check add to do
while adding this data what will happen so while
adding you will get a text while pressing the
button that needs to be added in this particular
list right so let's get started so for that
in the HTML you will have a button there is a
task whenever the value is getting updated the
task is getting updated and when the button
click add to do button click you have to pass
this data to the back end right so going here we
will get this dot task for that you have to call
this dot app service dot add to do and you have
to pass the data so the task should be this Dot
task and the completed parameter will
be initially it will be always false
right it is not completed so it will
be false then subscribe in the response
you can check console.log of
what response that is giving
so going to the application again inspect
and I'm adding some data in the console you can
see if I click on it the data getting added so it
is returning the ID but the data is not showing
here so we need a refresh right after refresh
it is getting updated so in order to avoid the
manual refresh once the data is updated you can
call this get list function so this dot get list
function you can add here now you can see once I
added the data it is getting added at the bottom
of the page so add to do is done but you can see
this value is not getting cleared right so for
that purpose you can do once this is done you
can make the task is equal to empty right but
there is a problem here so if I add some data
and press click we are adding a validation
right so on dirty we are adding a validation
so if the data is added it is getting empty but
there is a validation cell in order to avoid that
since we are using NG model we can clear we can
reset the value using this particular one for
that what you have to do is you have to go to the
component.ts file and you can use the view child
so I am adding a view child and to do task
is a value which we have referred here as a
hash to do so and I am giving any here and I am
updating the angular core section okay so that
is done then you can come here instead of this
one you can take this Dot to do task dot reset
then it will reset let's see
whether it is working or not
adding the data see it is resetting and the
button is disabled no validation error is
coming there okay so that part is done the similar
way next is update to do so when you click on the
checkbox so now the checkbox is updated there we
are calling the update to do that means uncheck
will be checked or check will be unchecked
right we have to update the checkbox value
so here we are calling the update to do here
and we are consoling it for that what you can
do you can call this dot app service Dot update
to do and only we are changing the checkbox right
the remaining things are same so dot dot dot to do
that means all the remaining data I am passing but
only I am changing insert completed one okay so
for that I'm just making it as an any for now or
there will be check box event yeah checkbox change
even this there you can pass the checkbox change
even then only we are changing the completed for
changing the completed from the checkbox event e
you will get an item called checked so which
can be either false or true so based on the
change it will we will get the current value
of the checkbox and the remaining name we are
not changing so we are passing the same thing
here and we are subscribing then press fonts
we are just consulted log of
response that's it because we we don't need
to update the list because when we click on
the check box it will be there itself right
if we have a multiple users uh then it to do
is only for in our purpose if you have multiple
users are there adding it deleting it then what
you can do is then you can refresh this get list
but here for to do application it's not really
required to re call the get list similar way we
have in the done in the add to do so coming here
I am editing so even though I am refreshing this
is reflected right so it is getting updated the
APA call is going and it is getting updated
so if you want to make sure inspect console
see it is getting updated all the data is
coming okay so the update to do is done next
reminding the thing is delete to do so delete to
do you can simply call the this dot app service
Dot do you need to do then ID don't subscribe
then you will get the response and once the
response you got you have to refresh the list
otherwise you have to manually refresh in order
to remove that record from the list right so I'm
just calling this dot get list function that's it
so closing this one and I am deleting it
is getting deleted deleted deleted see I'm
adding a new one I'm adding and removing
there is an validation there and adding
make it updated so everything is working fine
so this is our to do with our fake Json server